yeah reason why I'm doing it videos
basically because then one of my
subscribers I think he's am either
Barney's her next bike or new bike and
in it few days Nulty on supposing these
maybe even going to do to earn through
the CBT on it I'm not too sure I
[Music]
wouldn't say that's a wise thing to do
but I would use one of the school's
bikes if you can and I think he's main
concern was some what to do if you're
going through hippie traffic and you
have had to slow down quite quickly how
do you go about changing gear and so on
to make sure you can right gear but
anyway let's try and trace or twice rode
for a minute it's got a nice little nook
uphill section which is quite good for a
test so I should be on the rear bright
now and whoops rolling back even but
yeah you literally find the biting point
at the clutch out ever so slightly until
you feel it moving forwards come off the
rear brake and off you're going to first
now off your first has got a friendly
limited range you can't do too much
about late so if you want to shift in
the second but if you've got it wrong
that's all absolutely I'm down I'm in
neutral so you left a don't bother about
change it back down the first just
clutch in and then change up the second
then very smoothly change up the third
and when you think the the right road
speed is right you can change up to the
next gear like don't be in a rush to
change of gears if you're worm if you're
unsure about what you're doing just
don't try and race it just ever so smart
you dip the clutch but halfway change up
holding on the gears very gently and
smoothly you need an actual fact because
I'm going slow slow here
they don't wonder the Sun you slow down
I'll just flip off ever so slightly
rolled off the throttle change down a
gear let the clutch it back out and
there's no breaking involved it's older
so I'm
that's pretty much it really just
showing you the basic controls of the of
how the clashing gears work you don't
have to pull the clutch all the way in
probably about half way would do but
once you know where the binding point or
where the friction point is you'll get a
rough idea of where the actual clutch
disengages from from the rear wheel as
it were I know I haven't got a clue
where I'm going this could to be a dead
end
no listen to it there's another load up
there okay so now on see worm what we
were doing traffic obviously what you
want to do is because you're new to the
whole parking experience you really want
to keep your distance and maybe possibly
keep your speed down that's a good point
really just don't go don't try and go
too fast what the hell am I going here
that's the right lane this is confusing
my up
giveaways gotta be there okay that's
gone in this road
I want to find some traffic now so when
I thought she show you what I'm talking
about
so what I might do is cut the video here
and then read you on it when we got some
traffic to knock about with okay join me
in a minute so back on solute now we got
some traffic in front of us now so what
I'm basically doing here I'm traveling
roughly as I said it's a slot the other
30 and I'm probably in Top Gear but some
a song gradually just thought enough the
throttle and totally fine down I'm also
changing down a gear if you say yeah
five more now and so gently squeezing on
the front brake as well should use a
rear as well but I'm so used to the
front I don't use the front more than
the back so now I'm thinking I'm in
second gear not too sure yet but we're
coming to a stop and I think I'm gonna
turn right so or come to stop now
and put both brakes on and then switch
down to first gear it's not that's not a
bad thing you didn't have to be in
exactly as the right gear at all times
especially you're going to come to a
stop like again I can stop and see it's
literally neutral there so I know I'm in
first again you can always have a double
press of the leaves to make sure it's
definitely down into first and then as
you probably ever so slightly every star
you five miles an hour just dip the
clutch roll the throttle on once you've
rolled off of course remember between
each gear changes it should fall off
ever so slightly we're only talking a
few millimeters here I'm not talking the
total total throttle roll off again I'm
in a bit cheeky you're getting between
two cars
maybe so slightly on the floor oops and
again don't go too close to the car in
front you can hear the rest pick it up
if you does that too high I'll change up
but don't change up too much just to
give it you could old feel good feel of
the wave footwork safety or which or how
the actual gears or engine feels at that
particular time see now it doesn't feel
too stressed at the moment and if I dip
its ever so slightly it slows down a
little bit because you don't get much
eight engine braking the one to five
it's also enough to it's not over this
join I'm gonna pull it back on again so
I want to roll the farm on you don't
want too much jerkiness or
see if you get a really deep engine out
you know you're in too high
anyone has change down one bird sir yeah
I'm not too sure when that shopkins sort
of slightly subject now on a break in
now hadn't needed to change exits on the
downhill section but I might do now just
one more gear downwards and that's it
and I'm back Willie the roll again up
one other gear nice and smooth I'm
getting ready to start
use the brakes again ever so smooth on
the down changes and we're going to come
to a stop and we might see flick through
neutral yes there we go so I'm in
neutral now and ready to pull away
there's no don't worry about going back
into neutral once you've come to stop
I'm initially going to be stopping for
like you know five minutes at set alight
it doesn't do any damage to the clutch
or and if you're not that just by keep
holding the clutch in hold the rear
brake on and just getting ready for the
full off and as I said that this one
looks oh there we go
why are you changing it well I'm hope
this video is off song used to somebody
out there I could have done a far more
401 which I might doing a future of you
know the whole caboodle of how to ride
for the first time but this is just a
little refresher of them traveling to
closer just to refresh of what to do
generally what a geared bike if you've
come from a moped or whatever let's give
some idea if it's not that bad you just
if you feel you're going slightly too
fast and just diffict on one gear
apology not been silly space and it went
over ready engine if and like that
because when you don't change awfully
the red will go up if I change down now
without breaking well then really speed
up that much as in the engine note but
to able to be a smooth ISM and
progressive as you can really but that's
it for now and thanks to all my viewers
and subscribes and everybody else and if
you didn't want to watch this video well
I'm sure you turned off well before this
because you already know it all but
thanks for watching and I'll see you
next time with some other some other
topic